Some of the most interesting scenes are seascapes
or landscapes that are tack sharp from right
at your feet to the distant horizon.
Here's how you can do it every time.
First of all you have to scout the scene when
you have lots of time.
Try to pick a convenient location so you can
come back when the light is perfect.
You don't want to leave anything to chance
so avoid autofocus, which may concentrate
on the centre of the image and leave the foreground
and background blurry.
To get perfect focus from foreground to the
horizon you will need to know the hyperfocal
focus distance for the lens that you are using.
The best way to find out is to search on the
internet for "hyperfocal" or click here: http://www.dofmaster.com/dofjs.html
For my Canon 5D I have entered my 17mm lens
at f11 and the result is that if I focus the
lens at 1m (3 feet) the scene will be in focus
from .5m (1.5 feet) to infinity.
All we need to do is use these settings for
perfect focus every time.
Show up at the time for the best light.
Put your camera on a tripod using f11 focused
at 1 meter.
Frame the scene and simply adjust the shutter
speed for the correct exposure.
Try for scenes that are interesting from front
to back.
Super-wide photos work especially well if
you have lots of foreground and the horizon
very near the top of the frame.
With hyperfocal focusing the results are tack
sharp every time.
You can see more images at www.dreamstime.com/gwhughes_info